# Release 1.5

## Overview

Charmed Aether SD-Core is a fully automated, 5G mobile core solution designed for private mobile networks. It is a Charmed distribution of Aether SD-Core, aimed at making it easy, reliable, and secure to operate a private mobile network.

## Key Features

- **Automated Lifecycle Management**:  Fully automated deployment, configuration, and lifecycle management (Day 0 to Day 2) with Juju.
- **Network Management System (NMS)**: Intuitive frontend for configuring and managing 5G core networks.
- **Control Plane and User Plane Separation**: Supports flexible deployment options with control and user plane separation (CUPS). Distributed user planes for multi-location setups with a centralized control plane. All-in-one deployments for simpler, single-location use cases.
- **High availibility Data Platform**: Persistent data is stored in a high availability data solution with [Charmed MongoDB](https://charmhub.io/mongodb-k8s).
- **Performance Optimization**: Enhanced Platform Awareness (EPA) features ensure superior user plane performance:
  - Hugepages: Faster memory operations.
  - DPDK: Accelerated packet processing.
  - CPU Pinning: Dedicated, predictable processing resources.
- **Observability**: Fully integrated with [Canonical Observability Stack](https://charmhub.io/cos-lite) for real-time insights. Includes centralized logging, metrics, and dashboards.
- **Security**: All network functions are secured with TLS. Container images built and distributed by Canonical. Container images are trimmed down and regularly scanned and rebuilt to ensure they contain the latest security patches.
- **Cloud Native**: Built as a collection of microservices, deployable on Kubernetes environments with Terraform.
- **3GPP Compliance and Compatibility**: Compliant with 3GPP Release 15 standards. Supports integration with OpenAirInterface (OAI) Open RAN radio stack software.
